content/en/docs/faq.md, before:

---
title: "Frequently asked questions"
linkTitle: "FAQ"
description: "Flux and the GitOps Toolkit frequently asked questions."
weight: 144
---

{{% alert title="Troubleshooting" %}}
Troubleshooting advice can be found on our [Troubleshooting Cheatsheet](/docs/troubleshooting/).
{{% /alert %}}

## General questions

### Bundles

#### How to overwrite parameters for specific components

You might want to overwrite specific options for the components.
To achieve this, you must specify values in JSON or YAML format using the values-<component> option.

For example, if you want to overwrite `k8sServiceHost` and `k8sServicePort` for cilium,
take a look at its [values.yaml](https://github.com/aenix-io/cozystack/blob/238061efbc0da61d60068f5de31d6eaa35c4d994/packages/system/cilium/values.yaml#L18-L19) file.

Then specify these options in the `values-cilium` section of your Cozystack configuration, as shown below:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cozystack
  namespace: cozy-system
data:
  bundle-name: "distro-full"
  ipv4-pod-cidr: "10.244.0.0/16"
  ipv4-svc-cidr: "10.96.0.0/16"
  values-cilium: |
    cilium:
      k8sServiceHost: 11.22.33.44
      k8sServicePort: 6443
```

#### How to disable some components from bundle

Sometimes you may need to disable specific components within a bundle.
To do this, use the `bundle-disable` option and provide a comma-separated list of the components you want to disable. For example:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cozystack
  namespace: cozy-system
data:
  bundle-name: "paas-full"
  bundle-disable: "linstor,dashboard"
  ipv4-pod-cidr: "10.244.0.0/16"
  ipv4-svc-cidr: "10.96.0.0/16"
```

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
:warning: Disabling components using this option will not remove them if they are already installed. To remove them, you must delete the Helm release manually using the `kubectl delete hr -n <namespace> <component>` command.
{{% /alert %}}

### Operations

#### How to enable access to dashboard via ingres-controller

Just create an ingress resource to publish dashboard via `tenant-root-ingress-controller`:

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  annotations:
    cert-manager.io/cluster-issuer: letsencrypt-prod
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: tenant-root
    acme.cert-manager.io/http01-ingress-class: tenant-root
  name: dashboard-ingress
  namespace: cozy-dashboard
spec:
  ingressClassName: tenant-root
  rules:
  - host: demo.cozystack.io
    http:
      paths:
      - backend:
          service:
            name: dashboard
            port:
              number: 80
        path: /
        pathType: Prefix
  tls:
  - hosts:
    - demo.cozystack.io
    secretName: dashboard-ingress-tls
```

#### How to cleanup etcd state

Sometimes you might want to flush the etcd state from a node. You can use the following command:

```bash
talosctl reset --system-labels-to-wipe=EPHEMERAL --graceful=false --reboot
```

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
:warning: This command will remove the state from the specified node. Use it with caution.
{{% /alert %}}


#### How to generate kubeconfig for tenant users

Use the following script:

```bash
user=tenant-root

cluster=$(kubectl config get-contexts | awk '$1 == "*" {print $3}')
token=$(kubectl get secret -n "$user" "$user" -o go-template='{{ printf "%s\n" (index .data "token" | base64decode) }}')

kubectl config view --minify --raw > tenant-kubeconfig
kubectl config --kubeconfig tenant-kubeconfig unset users
kubectl config --kubeconfig tenant-kubeconfig unset contexts
kubectl config --kubeconfig tenant-kubeconfig set "users.$user.token" "$token"  --set-raw-bytes=true
kubectl config --kubeconfig tenant-kubeconfig set "contexts.$user@$cluster.user" "$user"
kubectl config --kubeconfig tenant-kubeconfig set "contexts.$user@$cluster.namespace" "$user"
kubectl config --kubeconfig tenant-kubeconfig set "contexts.$user@$cluster.cluster" "$cluster"
kubectl config --kubeconfig tenant-kubeconfig set current-context "$user@$cluster"
```

in the result, you’ll receive the tenant-kubeconfig file, which you can provide to the user.

Commit message:

Update infrmation how to enable dashboard in ingress

content/en/docs/faq.md, after:

---
title: "Frequently asked questions"
linkTitle: "FAQ"
description: "Flux and the GitOps Toolkit frequently asked questions."
weight: 144
---

{{% alert title="Troubleshooting" %}}
Troubleshooting advice can be found on our [Troubleshooting Cheatsheet](/docs/troubleshooting/).
{{% /alert %}}

## General questions

### Bundles

#### How to overwrite parameters for specific components

You might want to overwrite specific options for the components.
To achieve this, you must specify values in JSON or YAML format using the values-<component> option.

For example, if you want to overwrite `k8sServiceHost` and `k8sServicePort` for cilium,
take a look at its [values.yaml](https://github.com/aenix-io/cozystack/blob/238061efbc0da61d60068f5de31d6eaa35c4d994/packages/system/cilium/values.yaml#L18-L19) file.

Then specify these options in the `values-cilium` section of your Cozystack configuration, as shown below:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cozystack
  namespace: cozy-system
data:
  bundle-name: "distro-full"
  ipv4-pod-cidr: "10.244.0.0/16"
  ipv4-svc-cidr: "10.96.0.0/16"
  values-cilium: |
    cilium:
      k8sServiceHost: 11.22.33.44
      k8sServicePort: 6443
```

#### How to disable some components from bundle

Sometimes you may need to disable specific components within a bundle.
To do this, use the `bundle-disable` option and provide a comma-separated list of the components you want to disable. For example:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cozystack
  namespace: cozy-system
data:
  bundle-name: "paas-full"
  bundle-disable: "linstor,dashboard"
  ipv4-pod-cidr: "10.244.0.0/16"
  ipv4-svc-cidr: "10.96.0.0/16"
```

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
:warning: Disabling components using this option will not remove them if they are already installed. To remove them, you must delete the Helm release manually using the `kubectl delete hr -n <namespace> <component>` command.
{{% /alert %}}

### Operations

#### How to enable access to dashboard via ingres-controller

Update your `ingress` application and enable `dashboard: true` option in it.  
Dashboard will become available under: `https://dashboard.<your_domain>`

#### How to cleanup etcd state

Sometimes you might want to flush the etcd state from a node. You can use the following command:

```bash
talosctl reset --system-labels-to-wipe=EPHEMERAL --graceful=false --reboot
```

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
:warning: This command will remove the state from the specified node. Use it with caution.
{{% /alert %}}


#### How to generate kubeconfig for tenant users

Use the following script:

```bash
user=tenant-root

cluster=$(kubectl config get-contexts | awk '$1 == "*" {print $3}')
token=$(kubectl get secret -n "$user" "$user" -o go-template='{{ printf "%s\n" (index .data "token" | base64decode) }}')

kubectl config view --minify --raw > tenant-kubeconfig
kubectl config --kubeconfig tenant-kubeconfig unset users
kubectl config --kubeconfig tenant-kubeconfig unset contexts
kubectl config --kubeconfig tenant-kubeconfig set "users.$user.token" "$token"  --set-raw-bytes=true
kubectl config --kubeconfig tenant-kubeconfig set "contexts.$user@$cluster.user" "$user"
kubectl config --kubeconfig tenant-kubeconfig set "contexts.$user@$cluster.namespace" "$user"
kubectl config --kubeconfig tenant-kubeconfig set "contexts.$user@$cluster.cluster" "$cluster"
kubectl config --kubeconfig tenant-kubeconfig set current-context "$user@$cluster"
```

in the result, you’ll receive the tenant-kubeconfig file, which you can provide to the user.
